RATIONALE FOR REFCARDS PROJECT:
==============================
* The basic elements, the technology of the OIB's repertories, were "information" cards (the cards bearing the entries), divisionary cards, catalog drawers, the "meubles classeurs" or the furniture containing banks of drawers.
	* The combination of these different elements...permits the establishment of card repertories similar to a true book. The information cards constitute the leaves of the book; the divisionary cards, variously combined, indicate the exterior parts, the chapters, the sections and the paragraphs; the binding consists of the drawer itself, the movable rod of which functions as the spine...The classification numbers on the cards are really a pagination for a work whose contents table is the table of the Decimal Classification. Such a book is consulted as readily as any other. It is necessary only to flick the cards over on their lower edge, as one would turn the pages of a book, in order to read them with the greatest ease.
	* The advantages of card repertories over other kind of repertories compiled in the form of registers, books or notebooks are as follows:
		1. Successive daily intercalations of new material are permitted;
		2. Classification can be maintained steadily in a strict and rigorous order;
		3. Indefinite addition to the amount of material is possible;
		4. Immediate utilisation of material already collected, without needing to wait for the completion of the work begun, is possible;
		5. Preparation of notices by a great number of people working at the same time, however distant they might be from each other, is facilitated.

* THE CARD INDEX SYSTEM: TECHNOLOGICAL SUBSTRUCTURE FOR OTLET'S AND KAISER'S VISION OF INFORMATION ANALYSIS:
* As we have seen, Otlet and Kaiser conceptualized documents as recorded expressions of knowledge consisting of constellations of informational units comprising facts, ideas and opinions. That is, both men advocated extracting these informational units from documents and reorganizing them into index files in order to make them more accessible to researchers. Their agreement on the theoretical fundamentals of information analysis and KO was reinforced by a shared commitment to the cutting edge information technology of their time: the card system.
* In today's digitally inflected culture card indexes housed in cabinets are often considered to be an antiquated and obsolete mode of storing information. In the last decade of the 19th century and the opening decades of the 20th century, however, information systems based on "[c]ards of a uniform size, on which standardized data were transcribed, housed physically in card drawers and related furniture and organized conceptually by the classification of schemes of various kinds...epitomized a new 'modernist' technology. that was considered to have enormous practical advantages over the previously regnant system of recording information in bound ledgers. Finding increasing use not only in libraries (where card files were first employed) but also in business offices and government bureau, card index systems were especially prized for the flexibility in filing that they afforded: not only could cards bearing superannuated information be easily removed and ones bearing new information be added, but files could be easily rearranged if needed. Otlet and Kaiser were well aware of these advantages and enthusiastically advocated for the use of the card index model.
* The underlying reason for the flexibility of the card index system was its segmentation into a number of physically discrete, modular records--cards. Because, in such a system, "[e]ach card is a unit record representing an item of information., cards are an ideal tool for registering the results of information analysis. This technology was, indeed, precisely what Otlet and Kaiser envisioned for the KO systems that they designed. Both men held that, in an information index file, each individual card - or, in some documentary contexts, each sheet of loose leaf paper (Otlet) - should serve as the bearer of a single unit of information extracted from a document. As if to emphasize the one-to-one correspondence between card and information unit, Otlet termed this methodological tenet the "monographic principle".
* Once the information to be indexed had been entered upon cards in accordance to the monographic principle, it was necessary to organize the index file as a whole. Both Otlet and Kaiser envisioned that each card would be indexed by subject and that different cards containing information about the same subject would be collocated within the index file. Special divisionary, or guide, cards, distinguished from the others by size, shape or color, would mark the place of any given subject entry within the card file and indicate any subdivisions of main entries; as well as give cross references to related subjects. Card index files thus had the resources to represent individual pieces of information (by means of subject indexed unit cards) as well as to indicate the general structure of the card file within which the unit cards were gathered (by means of guide cards) and point out connections between subjects (also by means of guide cards).
* In Otlet's and Kaiser's eyes, then, the card system was an ideal mechanism for gathering together information units gleaned from many different documentary sources, organizing them according to their intellectual content and guiding users to cards containing information on the particular subject of their concern. As such, it was a sine qua non for their vision of KO based on information analysis.
